# Aurora Ferry - Timespace and RL for collision avoidance
Developed and tested on Windows using python 3.14.0 within a conda environment.

## Installation
1. **Clone with submodules:**
```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/stiefen1/aurora_ferry.git
cd aurora_ferry
```

2. **Install branch ```rk4-model-aurora-ferry``` of the PythonVehicleSimulator submodule:**
```bash
cd ./submodules/PythonVehicleSimulator/
git switch rk4-model-aurora-ferry
pip install -e .
cd ../..
```

3. **Install branch ```corridors``` of the Timespace-COLAV submodule:**
```bash
cd ./submodules/timespace-colav
git switch corridors
pip install -e .
cd ../..
```

4. **Install the package in development mode:**
```bash
pip install -e .
```

## General Information
Each set of simulations is generated based on a configuration file (.yaml) that specifies
- number of simulations
- seed
- duration \& sampling time
- GNC parameters
- path to NN weights for the RL agent
- MMSIs to exclude (e.g. Aurora ferry)
- possible start positions
- ranges of the operational domain

Based on this configuration, the requested number of scenarios is generated by sampling random values within the ODM. Each scenario is described by a json file that can be used to generate the resulting simulation. 


## Quick Start

### Setup configuration file
Go to ```src/scenarios``` and open ```test.yaml```, which is an example configuration file for simulations generation. You can copy this file to a new folder and edit the configuration based on your own requirements. 

### Setup AIS data
Create a folder ```data/raw``` in the root folder and place all the AIS data available inside this folder. Make sure that you specify the path to each .csv file in your configuration file (field scenario_generation->ais_data_paths).

### Setup RL weights
Place the NN weights of the RL agent and the observation space range inside a folder and provide the path to this folder inside your configuration file (field scenario_generation->control->path_to_weights). You must also specify which algorithm ('sac' or 'ppo') the RL agent is based on (field scenario_generation->control->algorithm). 

At this point, your folder structure should look similar to
```
+---data
|   |   ferry_data.json
|   |
|   +---raw
|   |       2023_04_06.csv
|   |       2023_04_15.csv
|
+---models
|   \---sac
|       \---2026_05_07_09_24_00
|               aurora.zip
|               observation_space_ranges.json
```
Alternative configurations are possible as long as you specify it correctly in the configuration file.

### Launch simulations
The ```main.py``` file (root folder) allows to launch the simulations as described in your configuration file. For this purpose, edit the ```FOLDER``` and ```CONFIG_FILENAME``` values in ```main.py``` to match the path to your configuration file. 

For example, if your configuration file is named "config1.yaml" and placed in /sim/tests, then ```FOLDER="sim/tests"``` AND ```CONFIG_FILENAME=config1.yaml```.

### Results
Figures and a short report will be generated in the same folder as your configuration file. 

## Replay Simulations
If you want to visualize a specific scenario, the ```src/scenarios/sim_launcher.py``` file can be used. In the ```__main__``` section, change the path provided to ```launcher.run_single_sim``` to the desired scenario (.json) and run the file. A matplotlib window should open to show the resulting simulation.

### Weather Forecasts
- [DMI](https://www.dmi.dk/)
- [FCOO](https://app.fcoo.dk/ifm-maps/denmark/)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Author

**Stephen Monnet** - [stiefen1](https://github.com/stiefen1)
- Email: stephen.monnet@outlook.com

